# CS-341 Terrain Generation
## Final project of CS341
3D Terrain generation program made using javascript and WebGL. Strongly inspired by Minecraft and its generation, in particular caves, biomes and terrain.
### Cave generation
For the cave generation, using just 3D Perlin noise did not achieve natural results. Instead, we used a 3D turbulence function in combination with 3D Perlin noise to achieve a more realistic cave system.
### Terrain generation
For terrain generation (above-ground terrain), we created 3 functions, called continentalness, peaks and erosion. These functions take values in [0, 1], 
which are the output of our 2D noise functions, and output values in [0, 1]. The functions were generated by linearly interpolating a series of points so that we 
could have more variation in our 2D noise, which is generally pretty continuous and doesn't have much variation. The continentalness and peaks functions were used to control mountains and the 
sharpness of peaks, while the erosion function determined which areas should be mostly flat. 
### Combining the two
To combine the terrain and caves, we use a combination of the previous algorithms: For a block to be generated, it has to satisfy both algorithms. In addition, we add a falloff to the Cave algorithm, so that higher levels have less caves. This allowed us to still have some surface cave entrances, but the montains were mostly left without caves.
### Biomes
Biomes were created using 2D Perlin noise and the y position of each block. From the highest level to lowest, the biomes were: Snow, forest/plains/water/desert, caves. The choice between the 4 mid-level biomes was done using 2D Perlin noise, and rivers were placed according to the output of a 2D turbulence function. In addition, we also added another 2D noise function just to perturb the y level during the biome evaluation, which removed the sharp transitions between biomes.
### Infinite expansion
Then we added infinite terrain expansion, where the user can use the w, a, s, d keys to generate extra terrain in the respective direction.
